Program's author and developer of the EOG system: Luis Cruz
Website: http://www.intelsath.com

Project's Functionality
--------------------------------
I developed the EOG system and wrote the necessary programs in order to help people with disabilities overcome communication obstacles with a very inexpensive solution. The EOG system detects the eye movements and then transfers that information to a circuit that transfers the information digitally using the serial port. With the eyeboard, the user can interact in real time with the program using just their eyes
--------------------------------


About the author -- Resume: www.myicv.com/lcruz
---------------------------------
I am currently pursuing the opportunity to study an Engineering Career in the United States. For contributions go to: www.intelsath.com

I was born in Tegucigalpa, Honduras on March 11, 1993. I was raised in my native country, and graduated from High School under an 11-year program. Subsequently to my graduation in Honduras, I decided to come to the United States to finish my 12th grade in high school, and thus obtain my U.S High School diploma.

My desire for improvement is immense, and given the scarcity of resources and support in my country, I have managed to excel in the field of Digital Electronics and Computer Science. Just about to enter high school on August of 2007, I decided to follow my passion and be successful at life working in what I really liked to do. I began teaching myself several programming languages and other concepts in computer science. I first started pursuing a game developer career, until I began to enter into the digital electronics world when I was 16 years old.

With my parent's support and financial sacrifice, I was able to come to the United States in pursuit of the American dream and more opportunities to fulfill my goals as a future engineer.

I have been published in some US and Honduran periodicals, featuring my projects, such as the First video game System in Honduras. On August 2010, I was an honored guest at the First Tuesday Latin American Conference, invited by the German Company for International Cooperation (GTZ) to address a conference about my projects and my story as a young entrepreneur.

On March 12, 2011 I participated in the Pikes Peak regional Science Fair of Colorado Springs, this was perhaps the first time that my school district competed on this competition. My project was chosen as the best project in the senior division of the Science fair and I received several other awards from the science fair and the Armed Forces Communications and Electronics Association (AFCEA). I was also chosen to compete at the Colorado State Science and Engineering Fair on April 7 and won several of awards there as well.

As I have managed to be a young entrepreneur as well, I was invited to attend as an exhibitor the Interop IT expo at the Mandalay Bay Hotel in Las Vegas, Nevada. Usually only huge companies have the opportunity to showcase their products in that annual event because of the high costs, however, due to the magnitude of my projects I was given that opportunity without the need of spending thousands of dollars like other companies.

These experiences have strengthened my endeavors to succeed at my projects and at life, yet I expect to learn more from my future experiences in order to accomplish my career aspirations. Although I feel I have succeeded most of my goals thus far, I still have a lot to learn and overcome some other barriers to accomplish my other goals such as my higher education and my ambitions as a future engineer.

My perseverance had taken me to work hard and pursue my dreams despite my economic limitation. I think that people shouldn’t wait for success knock your door, but pursue your dreams with enough perseverance and dedication until you reach your goals.
---------------------------------
